.TH ABSORB  1 "20 JULY 2006"  "KQ Release 2.2.3a" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
absorb \- calculate spectra
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B absorb
.I type
.I spatial_bin_number
.I vel_min
.I vel_max
.I vel_bin_number
.I filename
.I x 
.I y 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B absorb
calculates absorption properties along a sight line specified by
.I x
and
.I y.
If
.I x
is the string "auto", then the sight line is determined by a mouse click.
The properties calculated depend on the
.I type
parameter which can be either "spectra", "column", "velocity", "dark",
or "star".

If
.I type
is "dark" or "star" then
.I filename
will contain
.I spatial_bin_number
lines corresponding to spatial bins along the line of sight equally
spaced across the active box.  Each
line contains the line of sight distance to the center of the bin,
the mean mass density of "star" or "dark" (in gm/cc), the mean
velocity of the material in that bin (in physical km/s, that is with Hubble
flow included for cosmological simulations), and the effective spatial
resolution used in determining the density.  The density is determined
in the following way.  For each particle, it is determined whether the
line of sight intersects the smoothing kernel (as set by the
.B smooth
command), and if it does the contribution of the spline
kernel to the column density of each bin which overlaps the kernel is
integrated along the line of sight.  The mass density for each bin is
then the column density divided by the bin length, the velocity is the
mass weighted velocities (shifted by a Hubble term for cosmological
simulations) of the particles that contribute to the
column density, and the resolution is the mass weighted smoothing
lengths ("h" of the spline kernel).

If
.I type
is "column" then
.I filename.col
will contain
.I spatial_bin_number
lines as above with each line containing the line of sight distance to
the bin, the total gas mass density, the mass weighted velocity, the
mass weighted temperature, the mass density in HI, the velocity of the HI, the
temperature of the HI, the mass density, velocity and temperature of
the HeI, the mass density, velocity and temperature of the HeII, the
effective resolution, and an estimate of the divergence of the
velocity.

If
.I type
is "velocity" then
.I filename.vel
will contain
.I vel_bin_number
lines corresponding to equally spaced velocity intervals between
.I vel_min
and
.I vel_max.
Each line contains the central velocity of the bin, the column density
per velocity interval of HI (in gm/cm2 per km/s), the total column
density of gas (in atoms/cm2/(km/s)), the neutral fraction of the gas
that contributes to the HI column density(??), the mean temperature of the
HI gas, the density of the HI gas (in atoms/cc), the effective
resolution of the HI, the mean temperature of the total gas, the mean
temperature squared of the gas, and the divergence of the velocity of
the gas.  The column densities are determined in the following way.
Each spatial bin along the line of sight is divided into 10 (a compile
time constant "SUBBIN") sub-bins.  The velocity and temperature of
these sub-bins are linearly interpolated from the adjacent bins.  A
velocity profile is determined for the gas in this sub-bin based on
thermal broadening and damping wings.  This profile is then integrated
over each velocity bin to determine its contribution to the bin.

If
.I type
is "spectra", "column", or "velocity" then
.I filename
will contain
.I vel_bin_number
lines corresponding to equally spaced velocity intervals between
.I vel_min
and
.I vel_max.
Each line contains the central velocity of the bin, the optical depth
to HI absorption,  the
optical depth to HeI absorption, the optical depth to HeII absorption,
the total optical depth to HI within the velocity interval (no line
broadening), and the optical depth to deuterium absorption,

.SH SEE ALSO
