.TH HARD  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
hard \- make an X window dump (and send it to the printer)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hard
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hard
redraws the current plot full screen size and writes a xwd format file
of the image into the file
.I filename
so that it can be sent to a color printer or displayed again later. 
The image is written when any mouse button is pressed.  Carefully
center the image on the screen before pressing a mouse button
because what you see is what you get.
If nothing is currently plotted an error will be generated.
There are a few special
.I filenames
that cause the command to behave slightly differently.

If the 
.I filename
is
.B ``print''
no file is written but instead a postscript file is sent to the default printer
to be printed in black and white.

If the 
.I filename
is
.B ``colorprint''
no file is written but instead a color postscript file is sent to the default
printer to be printed in color.

If the 
.I filename
is
.B ``photo''
no file is written and the image remains on the screen until a button is
pressed.  This command is useful when taking pictures of the images.

If the 
.I filename
is
.B ``movie''
a file is written to file
.I filename
that contains the image in the current window but with
the same size as the current window.  Also, the command does not wait for
a mouse button to be pressed to write the file.  It is important to make
certain that the entire view area is uncovered when using this option
because what you see is what you get.  This command is useful for making
movies.

If the 
.I filename
is
.B ``dump''
an image is written to the file
.I filename.
The image contains the contents of the backing pixmap which tipsy uses to
refresh the current window.  This is useful if the window is larger than
the display.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR framepoints (1),
.BR xypoints (1),
.BR xyzpoints (1)
