.TH MAKEBOX  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
makebox \- make and load a box interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makebox
.I box-number
.SH ALIASES
.B mbox
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B makebox
is used to define the boundaries of box
.I box-number
interactively and then load that box. The requested box must be
between 1 and 
.I MAXBOX
or an error will be generated.  The value of 
.I MAXBOX 
can be found by using the
.B version
command.  If the currently plotted box is not the currently active box, 
or if the internal state has been altered since the last plot an error is
generated.  

Once the command is executed
a pointer will appear on the view surface.    Click the left mouse button while
holding down the shift key at the desired location of the lower left hand
corner of box
.I box-number.
This fixes the lower left hand corner of the box.  As the pointer is moved
using the mouse, the outline of the box is plotted in green.
Once the pointer is at the desired location of the upper right hand corner
of the box, again click the left mouse button while holding down the shift key.
The image is then rotated down 90 degrees and redisplayed so that the other
two edges of the box can be defined.
The green line shows the projected edge of the box that was just previously
defined.  Press the left mouse button while holding down the shift key
at the desired bottom edge and press it again while holding down the shift key
at the desired top edge.

Remember, during the whole operation
of the
.B makebox
command, the mouse keys perform their normal functions: zoom, unzoom, and pan.
These can be used to aid the construction of the box.  Only if the shift key
is held down while pressing the left mouse button will the
.B makebox
command record the position.  If the shift key isn't held down the
image will just be zoomed as per usual.
Once a box is made and loaded it still isn't the active box for plotting
until the
.B activatebox
command is used.
Boxes are removed using the
.B unload
command.

Boxes can also be made and loaded using the
.B setbox
and
.B setsphere
commands.  Box 0 can also be made and loaded using the
.B loadall
command.  Boxes can be plotted using the
.B showboxes
command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR activatebox (1),
.BR loadall (1),
.BR setbox (1),
.BR setsphere (1),
.BR showboxes (1),
.BR unload (1),
.BR version (1)
