.TH MARKSTAT  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
markstat \- print physical parameters of marked particles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B markstat
.I box
.I particle
.SH ALIASES
.B mstat
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B markstat
prints physical parameters of the marked particles in box
.I box-number
for the marked particles of type 
.I particle.
Parameters that are listed are: the mass, the density, the volume of the box,
the size of the box, the center of mass coordinates, 
the center of mass velocity,
and the angular momentum per unit mass in the center of mass frame.
This is similar to the
.B boxstat
command but only for the marked particles.

Particles can be marked using the
.B markarray,
.B markbox,
.B markgal,
and
.B readmark
commands. Marked particles can be written to a file using the
.B writemark
command.

Particles in a particular box can be unmarked using the
.B unmarkbox
command and all the marked particles can be unmarked using the
.B unmarkall
command.  Particles remain marked even when a new time frame is loaded but
after a new time frame is loaded any particles that were marked in the
previous time frame can only be unmarked using the
.B unmarkall
command.

If no particles are marked or if box
.I box-number
is not loaded an error is generated.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Particle
.LP
The possible choices for
.I particle
are:
.RS
.TP 3
.B all
Show the physical parameters of all the marked particles.
.TP 3
.B baryon
Show the physical parameters of only the marked gas and star particles.
.TP 3
.B dark
Show the physical parameters of only the marked dark matter particles.
.TP 3
.B gas
Show the physical parameters of only the marked gas particles.
.TP 3
.B star
Show the physical parameters of only the marked star particles.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR boxstat (1),
.BR markarray (1),
.BR markbox (1),
.BR markgal (1),
.BR readmark (1),
.BR unmarkall (1),
.BR unmarkbox (1),
.BR writemark (1)
