.TH MOMENTS  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
moments \- write the shape as a funtion of radius
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moments
.I box-number
.I center-box-number
.I particle
.I binning
.I bin-number
.I filename
.I minimum_radius
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moments
is a command that produces a file of name,
.I filename,
that contains various physical parameters that relate to the shape and
orientation of the density distribution for particles of type
.I particle
in box, 
.I box-number.
If the boxes
.I box-number
or
.I center-box-number
are not loaded an error is generated.
The shapes and orientations are calculated using the iterative technique
described in Katz (Ap.J. 368:325, 1991).
The initial guess for the center of the density distribution is taken
to be the center of mass of box
.I center-box-number.
The 
.I binning
argument refers to how the particles are binned, either linearly 
or log in radius.  There are
.I bin-number
equal size bins distributed equally in radius or log radius between
.I minimum_radius
and the size of box
.I box-number
depending on the
.I binning
argument.
The output file has the following columns: radius, b/a, c/a, phi, theta, psi,
center-x,center-y,and center-z where b/a refers to the
ratio between the intermediate axis and the long axis and c/a refers to
the ratio between the short and long axes.  Phi, theta and psi refer to the
Euler angles that describe the orientation of the density distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Particle
.LP
The possible choices for
.I particle
are:
.RS
.TP 3
.B all
Use the all the particles in box
.I box-number
.TP 3
.B dark
Use only the dark matter particles in box
.I box-number
.TP 3
.B gas
Use only the gas particles in box
.I box-number
.TP 3
.B star
Use only the star particles in box
.I box-number
.RE
.SS Binning
.LP
The possible choices for
.I binning
are:
.RS
.TP 3
.B lin
Make 
.I bin-number
bins spaced equally in radius between
.I minimum-radius
and the size of box
.I box-number
.TP 3
.B log
Make 
.I bin-number
bins spaced equally in log radius between
.I minimum-radius
and the size of box
.I box-number
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR profile (1),
.BR rotationcurve (1),
.SH BUGS
The technique doesn't always converge, particularily when the density
distribution is very clumpy.  Things converge much better when the box
.I center-box-number
contains the true center for the density distribution in box
.I box-number
and is as small as possible.
