.TH OLDREADASCII  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
oldreadascii \- read an old format ascii file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oldreadascii
.I filename
.I type
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oldreadascii
is a command to read in the currently open ascii file if it is in the old
ascii format and write it out in binary form into file 
.I filename.
This command only exists to preserve backwards compatibility.
The 
.B readascii 
command is used for ascii files with the usual format.
If no ascii file is open or if a binary file is already open an error is
generated.  Ascii files are opened using the
.B openascii
command
and binary files are closed using the
.B closebinary
command.  After the binary file is written the ascii file is closed
and the binary file
.I file-name
is opened. 
After the binary file is made a specific time must still be loaded using
the 
.B loadbinary
command before any plotting can be done.

The ascii file should be of the old ascii form and contain all
the time frames in sequential order.  If
.I type
is
.B sph
each time frame should be of the form:
.LP
.RS
.TP 3
ntotal, ndimensions, time, ngas, nstar
.TP 3
mass(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
density(i), i = 1 to ngas
.TP 3
temperature(i), i = 1 to ngas
.TP 3
sph_smoothing_length(i), i = 1 to ngas,
.RE
where ntotal is the total number of particles, ngas is the number of
gas particles, and nstar is the number of star particles.  The first
ngas particles should be the gas particles and the last nstar
particles should be the star particles with the dark particles being
in the middle.  If
.I type
is
.B nosph
each time frame should be of the form:
.LP
.RS
.TP 3
ntotal, ndimensions, time
.TP 3
mass(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closeascii (1),
.BR closebinary (1),
.BR loadbinary (1),
.BR openascii (1),
.BR readascii (1)
