.TH READMACRO  1 "23 JUNE 2000"  "HWTipsy Release 1.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
readmacro \- read a macro file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readmacro
.I macro-filename
.SH ALIASES
.B rmac
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B readmacro
reads macro's from the file
.I macro-filename.
The file
.I macro-filename
can contain many different macro's.  A macro is a sequential list of tipsy
commands.  In the file
.I macro-filename
each macro must have as its first line the name of the macro and as its
last line "end".  If a macro with that name already exists it is
deleted when the new macro is read.  In the file put one command per line.
Many different macro's can be in the one file
.I macro-filename
one after the other.

The 
.I for 
construct can be used inside macros. Example:
.po +5
for $i = 1, 9 
.br
    print $i 
.br
done 
.br
.po -5
This sets a variable $i.  Note that this is a global variable, like all 
tipsy variables.  A step size can also be defined:
.po +5
for $i = 10, 0, -2 
.br
.po -5
Loops can be nested inside each other.

The environent variable
.B TIPSYMACROPATH
can be used to provide a list of directories to be searched for the macro 
.I macro-filename.
The format of this variable is a set of colon-separated directories,
generally starting with a period for current directory.  Example:
.P
$ setenv 
.B TIPSYMACROPATH 
 \ .:/usr1/joeuser/tipsy/macros

Macro's can be executed using the
.B macro
command.  Macro's can be created interactively using the
.B makemacro
command and can be written to a file using the
.B writemacro
command.  Macro's can be deleted using the
.B deletemacro
command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deletemacro (1),
.BR macro (1),
.BR makemacro (1),
.BR writemacro (1)
