.TH READASCII  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "KQ Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
readascii \- read an ascii file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readascii
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B readascii
is a command to read in the currently open ascii file
and write it out in binary form into file 
.I filename.
The
.B ascii2binary
program also converts TIPSY ascii format into TIPSY binary format.
The 
.B oldreadascii 
command is used for ascii files with the old format.

If no ascii file is open or if a binary file is already open an error is
generated.  Ascii files are opened using the
.B openascii
command.  After the binary file is written the ascii file is closed
and the binary file
.I filename
is opened.  Binary files can be opened or closed using the
.B openbinary
and
.B closebinary
commands.

The ascii file should be of the TIPSY ascii form and typically contains all
the time frames in sequential order.  Each time frame should be of the form:
.LP
.RS
.TP 3
ntotal, ngas, nstar
.TP 3
ndimensions
.TP 3
time
.TP 3
mass(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_position(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
x_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
y_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
z_velocity(i), i = 1 to ntotal
.TP 3
grav_softening_length_dark_particles(i), i = 1 to ndark
.TP 3
grav_softening_length_star_particles(i), i = 1 to nstar
.TP 3
density(i), i = 1 to ngas
.TP 3
temperature(i), i = 1 to ngas
.TP 3
sph_smoothing_length(i), i = 1 to ngas,
.TP 3
metals_gas(i), i = 1 to ngas,
.TP 3
metals_star(i), i = 1 to nstar,
.TP 3
formation_time(i), i = 1 to nstar,
.TP 3
potential_energy(i), i = 1 to ntotal,
.RE

where ntotal is the total number of particles, ngas is the number of
gas particles, ndark is the number of dark matter particles,
and nstar is the number of star particles.  The first
ngas particles should be the gas particles and the last nstar
particles should be the star particles with the dark particles being
in the middle.  Therefore, each time frame should contain 9*ntotal+3*ngas+2nstar
+3 lines.

After the binary file is made a specific time must still be loaded using
the 
.B loadbinary
command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closeascii (1),
.BR closebinary (1),
.BR loadbinary (1),
.BR oldreadascii (1),
.BR openbinary (1),
.BR openascii (1)
