.TH VISTA  1 "22 MARCH 1994"  "Katz and Quinn Release 2.0" "TIPSY COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
vista \- make FITS images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vista
.I type
.I low
.I high
.I file
.I size
.I [ vel-min velmax ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vista
creates a fits image of
.I size
pixels on a side of the current projection
and writes it to
.I file.
The values in the fits file are base 10 logarithms of various smooth
quantities and are limited to values between
.I low
and
.I high.
.I type
determines what variables are output, and is one of:
.I density
(gas density),
.I temperature
(gas temperature),
.I pressure
(gas pressure),
.I cooling
(gas cooling time),
.I formstar
(star formation rate),
.I star
(star density),
.I lumi, lumv, lumb, lumu, lumuu
(I, V, B, U or UU band stellar luminosity),
.I dark
(dark matter density),
.I hneutral
(neutral hydrogen column density),
.I heI
(neutral helium column density),
and
.I heII
(singly ionized helium column density).

All smoothed quantities are calculated by projecting the particles
onto the grid using a Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics technique with a
spline softening kernel.  For gas quantities the smoothing length  is
set by the
.I hsmooth
parameter of each particle.
For dark or star quantities, the smoothing parameters can be set by
the
.B smooth
command.

For the species column densities, velocity cuts can be made with the
optional parameters
.I vel-min
and
.I vel-max.
to simulate emmission seen within a limited spectral range.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR coolconstants (1),
.BR formconstants (1),
.BR lumconstants (1),
.BR redshift (1),
.BR smooth(1)
.BR viscconstants (1)
